.TH LPASS 1 "2026-04-25" "lpass" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lpass \- local password manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpass
.I command
.RI [ argument ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lpass
is a local password manager for Linux.
Passwords are encrypted with XChaCha20-Poly1305 using a master password
derived with Argon2id (libsodium). Nothing leaves the machine.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Create the vault and set the master password.
Fails if the vault already exists.
.TP
.B add
Add a new entry. Prompts interactively for label, URL, username,
password, and notes, then re-encrypts the vault.
.TP
.BI get " label"
Display all fields of the entry matching
.IR label
(label, URL, username, notes). The password is not printed.
.TP
.B list
List all entries. Prints label, URL, and username for each entry.
.TP
.BI copy " label"
Copy the password of the entry matching
.I label
to the system clipboard using
.BR xclip (1).
.TP
.BI delete " label"
Delete the entry matching
.I label
and re-encrypt the vault.
.TP
.BI gen " [length]"
Generate and print a cryptographically random password.
.I length
defaults to 20. Minimum is 4.
The password is guaranteed to contain at least one digit,
one lowercase letter, one uppercase letter, and one symbol.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.lpass/vault
Encrypted vault file. Binary format:
.BR [ salt:32 ][ nonce:24 ][ ciphertext_len:8 ][ ciphertext ] .
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create the vault
lpass init

# Add an entry
lpass add

# View an entry
lpass get github

# List all entries
lpass list

# Copy a password to clipboard
lpass copy github

# Delete an entry
lpass delete github

# Generate a 32-character password
lpass gen 32
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xclip (1),
.BR sodium (7)
